doc_source/source/firststeps-introduction.rst, before:


Introduction
============

Gurobi Machine Learning is a Python package to embed *trained* regression models in
in a
`gurobipy model <https://www.gurobi.com/documentation/current/refman/py_model.html>`_
to be solved with the `Gurobi <https://www.gurobi.com>`_ solver.

When the regression model is embedded in an optimization model, its input and output are decision variables.
They are linked by the regression in that the output variables values are the values predicted by the regression from the input variables in a feasible solution.

The aim of the package is to:

   #. Provide a simple way to embed regression models in a gurobipy model.
   #. Promote a deeper integration between predictive and prescriptive analytics.
   #. Allow to easily compare the effect of using different regression models in the same mathematical optimization application.
   #. Improve the algorithmic performance of Gurobi on those models.

The package currently supports various `scikit-learn <https://scikit-learn.org/stable/>`_ objects and has limited support
for `Keras <https://keras.io/>`_ and `PyTorch <https://pytorch.org/>`_ neural networks with ReLU activation.

It is actively developed and users are encouraged to :doc:`contact us <meta-contactus>` if they have applications where they use a regression model that is currently
not available.

Below, we give basic installation and usage instructions.

Install
=======

We encourage to install the package via pip (or add it to your `requirements.txt` file):


.. code-block:: console

  (.venv) pip install gurobi-machinelearning


.. note::

  If not already installed, this should install the ``gurobipy`` and
  ``numpy`` packages.


.. note::

  The package has been tested with and is supported for Python 3.9 and Python 3.10.

  Table table-versions_ lists the version of the relevant packages that are tested and
  supported in the current version (|version|).

  .. _table-versions:

  .. list-table:: Supported packages with version |version|
     :widths: 50 50
     :align: center
     :header-rows: 1

     * - Package
       - Version
     * - ``gurobipy``
       - |GurobiVersion|
     * - ``numpy``
       - |NumpyVersion|
     * - ``pandas``
       - |PandasVersion|
     * - ``torch``
       - |TorchVersion|
     * - ``scikit-learn``
       - |SklearnVersion|
     * - ``tensorflow``
       - |TensorflowVersion|



Usage
=====

The main function provided by the package is :py:func:`gurobi_ml.add_predictor_constr`.
It takes as arguments: a `gurobipy model <https://www.gurobi.com/documentation/current/refman/py_model.html>`_,
a :doc:`supported regression model <mlm-supported>`,
input `Gurobi variables <https://www.gurobi.com/documentation/current/refman/variables.html>`_ and
output `Gurobi variables <https://www.gurobi.com/documentation/current/refman/variables.html>`_.

By invoking the function, the gurobipy model is augmented with variables and
constraints so that, in a solution, the values of the output variables
are predicted by the regression model from the values of the input variables.
More formally, if we denote by :math:`g` the prediction function of the regression model, by
:math:`x` the input variables
and by :math:`y` the output variables, :math:`y = g(x)` in any solution.

The function :py:func:`add_predictor_constr <gurobi_ml.add_predictor_constr>` returns a
modeling object derived from the class
:py:class:`AbstractPredictorConstr <gurobi_ml.modeling.AbstractPredictorConstr>`.
That object keeps track of all the variables and constraints that have been added
to the gurobipy model to establish the relationship between input and output variables
of the regression.

The modeling object can perform a few tasks:

   * Everything it created (i.e. variables and constraints to establish the relationship
     between input and output) can be removed with the
     :py:meth:`remove <gurobi_ml.modeling.AbstractPredictorConstr.remove>` member function.
   * It can print a summary of what it added with the
     :py:meth:`print_stats <gurobi_ml.modeling.AbstractPredictorConstr.print_stats>` member function.
   * Once Gurobi computed a solution to the optimization problem, it can compute the difference
     between what the regression model predicts from the input values and the values
     of the output variables in Gurobi's solution with the
     :py:meth:`get_error <gurobi_ml.modeling.AbstractPredictorConstr.print_stats>` member function.


The function :py:func:`add_predictor_constr <gurobi_ml.add_predictor_constr>`
is a shorthand that should add the correct model for any supported regression model,
but individual functions for each regression model are also available.
For the list of frameworks and regression models supported and the corresponding functions please
refer to the :doc:`mlm-supported` section.

For some regression models, additional optional parameters can be set to tune the way the predictor is inserted in the Gurobi model.
Those are documented in the corresponding function linked from :doc:`mlm-supported`.

For a simple example on how to use the package please refer to the :doc:`firststeps-simple-example` section.
More advanced examples are available in the :doc:`mlm-examples` section.

Commit message:

Don't always need to install all ML packages

doc_source/source/firststeps-introduction.rst, after:


Introduction
============

Gurobi Machine Learning is a Python package to embed *trained* regression models in
in a
`gurobipy model <https://www.gurobi.com/documentation/current/refman/py_model.html>`_
to be solved with the `Gurobi <https://www.gurobi.com>`_ solver.

When the regression model is embedded in an optimization model, its input and output are decision variables.
They are linked by the regression in that the output variables values are the values predicted by the regression from the input variables in a feasible solution.

The aim of the package is to:

   #. Provide a simple way to embed regression models in a gurobipy model.
   #. Promote a deeper integration between predictive and prescriptive analytics.
   #. Allow to easily compare the effect of using different regression models in the same mathematical optimization application.
   #. Improve the algorithmic performance of Gurobi on those models.

The package currently supports various `scikit-learn <https://scikit-learn.org/stable/>`_ objects and has limited support
for `Keras <https://keras.io/>`_ and `PyTorch <https://pytorch.org/>`_ neural networks with ReLU activation.

It is actively developed and users are encouraged to :doc:`contact us <meta-contactus>` if they have applications where they use a regression model that is currently
not available.

Below, we give basic installation and usage instructions.

Install
=======

We encourage to install the package via pip (or add it to your `requirements.txt` file):


.. code-block:: console

  (.venv) pip install gurobi-machinelearning


.. note::

  If not already installed, this should install the ``gurobipy`` and
  ``numpy`` packages.


.. note::

  The package has been tested with and is supported for Python 3.9 and Python 3.10.

  Table table-versions_ lists the version of the relevant packages that are tested and
  supported in the current version (|version|).

  .. _table-versions:

  .. list-table:: Supported packages with version |version|
     :widths: 50 50
     :align: center
     :header-rows: 1

     * - Package
       - Version
     * - ``gurobipy``
       - |GurobiVersion|
     * - ``numpy``
       - |NumpyVersion|
     * - ``pandas``
       - |PandasVersion|
     * - ``torch``
       - |TorchVersion|
     * - ``scikit-learn``
       - |SklearnVersion|
     * - ``tensorflow``
       - |TensorflowVersion|

  Installing any of the machine learning packages is only required if the predictor you want to insert uses them
  (i.e. to insert a Keras based predictor you need to have ``tensorflow`` installed).


Usage
=====

The main function provided by the package is :py:func:`gurobi_ml.add_predictor_constr`.
It takes as arguments: a `gurobipy model <https://www.gurobi.com/documentation/current/refman/py_model.html>`_,
a :doc:`supported regression model <mlm-supported>`,
input `Gurobi variables <https://www.gurobi.com/documentation/current/refman/variables.html>`_ and
output `Gurobi variables <https://www.gurobi.com/documentation/current/refman/variables.html>`_.

By invoking the function, the gurobipy model is augmented with variables and
constraints so that, in a solution, the values of the output variables
are predicted by the regression model from the values of the input variables.
More formally, if we denote by :math:`g` the prediction function of the regression model, by
:math:`x` the input variables
and by :math:`y` the output variables, :math:`y = g(x)` in any solution.

The function :py:func:`add_predictor_constr <gurobi_ml.add_predictor_constr>` returns a
modeling object derived from the class
:py:class:`AbstractPredictorConstr <gurobi_ml.modeling.AbstractPredictorConstr>`.
That object keeps track of all the variables and constraints that have been added
to the gurobipy model to establish the relationship between input and output variables
of the regression.

The modeling object can perform a few tasks:

   * Everything it created (i.e. variables and constraints to establish the relationship
     between input and output) can be removed with the
     :py:meth:`remove <gurobi_ml.modeling.AbstractPredictorConstr.remove>` member function.
   * It can print a summary of what it added with the
     :py:meth:`print_stats <gurobi_ml.modeling.AbstractPredictorConstr.print_stats>` member function.
   * Once Gurobi computed a solution to the optimization problem, it can compute the difference
     between what the regression model predicts from the input values and the values
     of the output variables in Gurobi's solution with the
     :py:meth:`get_error <gurobi_ml.modeling.AbstractPredictorConstr.print_stats>` member function.


The function :py:func:`add_predictor_constr <gurobi_ml.add_predictor_constr>`
is a shorthand that should add the correct model for any supported regression model,
but individual functions for each regression model are also available.
For the list of frameworks and regression models supported and the corresponding functions please
refer to the :doc:`mlm-supported` section.

For some regression models, additional optional parameters can be set to tune the way the predictor is inserted in the Gurobi model.
Those are documented in the corresponding function linked from :doc:`mlm-supported`.

For a simple example on how to use the package please refer to the :doc:`firststeps-simple-example` section.
More advanced examples are available in the :doc:`mlm-examples` section.
